# Human-Activity-recognition
<p>Taken the data from UCI repository then predicted using LSTM-RNN</p>
<h2>Introduction:</h2>
<p>Human Activity Recognition is a time-series classification problem.The data has been generated by using the Accelerometer and the Gyroscope along with the smartphones.</p>
<p>These sensors record the data from the following activities.</p>
<ol>
  <li>Walking</li>
  <li>Upstairs</li>
  <li>Downstairs</li>
  <li>Sitting</li>
  <li>Standing</li>
  <li>Laying</li>
</ol>
<p>The Human Ativity Recognition is applied in the field of the  Serveillance System,Healthcare,Human Computer Intraction etc.</p>
<h2> Dataset Info:</h2>
<p>The DataSet Has been taken from the UCI repository which you can get <a href="https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/human+activity+recognition+using+smartphones">here </a></p>
<p>The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data.

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain.</p>
